---
layout: default
title: Problem Solving COM411
nav_order: 100
---

{: .no_toc }


# Problem Solving Through Programming COM411


**Why is this module important?**

Problem solving is concerned with identifying problems, devising possible solutions and taking an appropriate course of action.  Problem solving is a fundamental skill that allows us to tackle problems of varying scope in a systematic manner.  It is also the single most desirable and sought-after skill in the computing profession. All software is designed to solve a human problem and comprises of an array of solutions to a series of smaller problems.  Software is developed using computer programming whereby computing problems are transformed into instructions that make up a software solution.  In this module you will develop your problem-solving skills through computer programming and the development of software solutions.  You will gain knowledge and skills that are highly desirable in the computing profession and are essential to the course of your study.

**What you will learn on this module**

You will be introduced to the problem-solving process and its importance in the computing profession. You will learn to tackle computer problems of varying scope in a systematic manner.  You will learn core computer programming concepts such as data types, expressions and control structures as well as fundamental software development principles and techniques.  Whilst the coding aspect of computer programming will be explored in some depth, the importance of understanding the problem domain, planning and subsequently evaluating a solution will be emphasised.  You will learn techniques related the design, implementation and testing of software solutions and gain an appreciation for their role in the context of the computing profession and the wider industry.
